Atkins , it is alleged, was negligent in letting Buckmaster repeat his errors at the expense of agents' lives, including 27 arrested on landing who the Germans later killed.
Her biographer Sarah Helm believes that Atkins , who still had relatives in Nazi occupied Europe, may have travelled to the Netherlands in 1940 and helped a cousin to escape by bribing Abwehr officials, and then later escaped from occupied Belgium through a resistance "lifeline".
Whatever the truth, Buckmaster was Atkins ' superior officer, and thus ultimately responsible for running SOE's French agents, and she remained a civilian and not even a British national until February 1944.
It was Buckmaster who recklessly sent a reply to the message supposedly sent by Norman telling him, and thus the actual German operator, that he had forgotten his "true" check and to remember it in future.
On 1 October 1943 F-Section received a message from "Jacques", an agent in Berne, passing on information from " Sonja " that "Madelaine" and two others had had "a serious accident and were in hospital" code for captured by the German authorities.
"Jacques" was an SOE radio operator, Jacques Weil of the Juggler circuit, who had escaped to Switzerland, " Sonja " was his fiancee, Sonia Olschanezky , who was still operating in Paris, and "Madelaine" was Noor Inayat Khan , a wireless operator of the Cinema circuit.
This accurate information was not acted upon by Buckmaster , probably because " Sonja " was a locally recruited agent unknown to him, and F-Section continued to regard "Madelaine's" messages as genuine for several months after Noor 's arrest.
There is no evidence that Atkins was aware of this message, and as she was later to misidentify Sonia as Noor because she was unaware the former was an SOE operative, the responsibility for ignoring Sonia 's communication and continuing to send agents to the blown Prosper circuit and sub-circuits in Paris, and so to their capture and often death, must lie with Buckmaster and not Atkins , as with the case of "Archambaud" above.
It was not until after the end of the war that Atkins learnt of the almost total success the Germans had had by 1943 in destroying SOE networks in the Low Countries by playing the Funkspiel ("radio game"), by which radio operators were captured and forced to give up their codes and "bluffs", so that German intelligence (Abwehr in the Netherlands; Sicherheitsdienst (SD) in France) officers could impersonate the agents and play them back against in London.
For some reason, Buckmaster and Atkins were not informed of the total collapse of the circuits in the Netherlands (N Section) and Belgium (T Section) due to the capture and control of wireless operators by the Abwehr.
